custom public 3scale base urls (#24)
integr8ly/user-documentation: docs/content/gs-adding-custom-3scale-routes.adoc

[id='gs-adding-custom-3scale-routes']

ifdef::env-github[]
:imagesdir: ../images/
endif::[]

> = Allow using public hosts for 3scale APIs in {PRODUCT}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Creating custom urls for 3scale APIs
```

> Customers might want to use public custom base URLs for their 3scale APIs. In order to allow that an OpenShift route has to be added to the 3scale namespace first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use 3scale to manage your API, you might require that the API URL use a specific host and format. 
For example, you might want to expose an API as `https://mydomain.com/v1/getStuff`. 
To use a custom domain, you must create a route in the OpenShift 3scale project as described below
```

> NOTE: The `customer-admin` user has the permissions required for the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Prerequisites
* you must be logged in as the `customer-admin` user
* a custom domain registration
```

== Creating the OpenShift route

A new OpenShift route for the public has to be created.

First make sure you are logged in as `customer-admin`

```sh

> $ oc login -u customer-admin

Reviewer: @maleck13  I'm guessing we should avoid this in future, and go with something like:
Log in as a user with the `dedicated-admin` role.

Reviewer: addressed in jira

[id='gs-adding-custom-3scale-routes']

ifdef::env-github[]
:imagesdir: ../images/
endif::[]

= Allow using public hosts for 3scale APIs in {PRODUCT}

Customers might want to use public custom base URLs for their 3scale APIs. In order to allow that an OpenShift route has to be added to the 3scale namespace first.

NOTE: The `customer-admin` user has the permissions required for the following steps.

> == Creating the OpenShift route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure
```

A new OpenShift route for the public has to be created.

First make sure you are logged in as `customer-admin`

```sh
$ oc login -u customer-admin
```

> Create a file named `custom-route.yaml` with the following contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named `custom-route.yaml` using the appropriate values for `<route name>` and `<route host>`:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: <route name>
  namespace: openshift-3scale
spec:
  host: <route host>
  port:
    targetPort: gateway
  tls:
    insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy: None
    termination: edge
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: apicast-staging
    weight: 100
  wildcardPolicy: None
```

> Fill in `<route name>` and `<route host>` in line 4 and 7 then create the route:

Reviewer 2: remove if accepting edit above

> Fill in `<route name>` and `<route host>` in line 4 and 7 then create the route:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the route:
```

```sh
$ oc create -f ./custom-route.yaml
```

> NOTE: once a route has been created it can't be deleted by `customer-admin`. This is to prevent accidental deletion of the auto generated routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You cannot delete any routes created using this method.```
1. I wonder if this needs to be at top of process
2. I don't think reason is appropriate here, but would make a good known issue in release notes

> == Configuring the public base URL in 3scale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Additional Information
```

> Once the route is created in OpenShift it has to be configured in your APIcast instance.

Reviewer: move up to be at end of procedure

> Please refer to the relevant link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_3scale/2.3/html/deployment_options/apicast-overview#configure_your_service[3scale documentation] to set up your public base URL in APIcast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_3scale_api_management/2.4/html-single/deployment_options/index#configure_your_service[3scale documentation] for a description of how to set up your public base URL in APIcast.
```

> To learn more about public base URLs in 3scale have a look at link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_3scale/2.3/html/deployment_options/apicast-overview#public_base_url[this section].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_3scale_api_management/2.4/html-single/deployment_options/index#public_base_url[Public Base URL] documentation for an introduction to custom URLs.
```
